'Published by Square Enix and developed with assistance from Lancarse  The DioField Chronicle looks and feels like most tactical RPGs out on the Switch in many ways  but with everything just slightly tweaked. The characters are all undeniably stylised  but never quite as much as Fire Emblem: Three Houses. The politics are front and centre throughout the gameâ\x80\x99s story  but donâ\x80\x99t feel as overt as classics like Final Fantasy Tactics. The gameâ\x80\x99s take on war feels more reminiscent of Valkyria Chronicles than anything else. The DioField Chronicle borrows liberally from other gems of the genre without feeling like a carbon copy. The game follows the story of a rising empire in the east that threatens to overtake the rest of the continent. As a response  the remaining nations banded together  creating a conflict between the Empire and the Alliance that provides the backdrop to everything else that unfolds in the story. Most of the story takes place in the nation of Alletain on the island of DioField  which is rich in the mineral that powers magic in this setting and therefore is a prize both sides of the conflict covet. Most of this backstory is delivered in a shotgun blast of information that hits the player in an opening crawl. As we mentioned above  the setup feels very similar to 2008â\x80\x99s Valkyria Chronicles  though with a focus on magic rather than technology. It isnâ\x80\x99t complicated  but it doesnâ\x80\x99t need to be to get the point across. The story might not be the most unique  but the art direction of the game is gorgeous. The DioField Chronicle is beautiful  from the opening cutscene that evokes the opening to Game of Thrones to the reveal of the various bosses your party fights. From the almost watercolour aesthetic of the character portraits to the fluid way they move in cutscenes  there is so much style on display in this game. The characters look like theyâ\x80\x99ve been pulled out of a Final Fantasy XIV cutscene  complete with the overly smooth skin textures and giant armour builds. And the setting is primarily medieval fantasy  though there is the occasional top hat on a characterâ\x80\x99s head  sometimes very small and sat at a jaunty angle  to remind us of the gameâ\x80\x99s steampunk influences. The DioField Chronicle takes the usual tactical RPG format and gives it a slight twist. Gone are the squares or hexes to show how far characters can move  as battles take place largely in real-time  with the action only stopping when players issue commands to their units. Once they are in place  they will continue to attack enemies that get within their range until they are told to do something else. It is a satisfying twist on the usual micromanagement that usually happens in tactical RPGs  making the battles feel more chaotic than most games in the genre. It isnâ\x80\x99t a complete overhaul of what has worked before  but it is a fun wrinkle that means players need to keep a close eye on character health and position as the battles rage on. Characters come in four classes  though different equipment and builds can influence how they behave in battle. Soldiers can use daggers to be more like rogues  axes to inflict heavy damage and statuses on enemies  or a sword and shield to serve as tanks. There are similar builds for each class  but it never becomes so overwhelming that you canâ\x80\x99t manage your resources or tactics. It is scaled back in some ways but just robust enough to keep from being boring. Combat gives players the chance to unleash some fun spells and there are moments where taking advantage of the terrain can deal some bonus damage  but the game largely relies on positioning your units correctly and letting them fight it out in melee. Many of the most powerful spells  including summoning Bahamut in a visually satisfying explosion of fire  arenâ\x80\x99t enough to finish off most enemies. Youâ\x80\x99ll need to send in your melee units to mop up for you. It undermines the awesome visuals of these attacks when they fail to kill even a single archer. The biggest issue with combat  though  is the way things scale so quickly. Having even one character lower than the recommended level for a mission can result in a complete wipe  meaning that youâ\x80\x99ll have to spend quite a bit of time grinding to keep everyone at the same pace as your main party. The cost of items and equipment also means that youâ\x80\x99ll spend time grinding for money if you want to deck your team out in the best gear. The characters of The DioField Chronicle have some charm to them  but most of them lack enough depth to keep you interested past their initial reveal. The gritty nature of the story Square Enix is trying to tell means that there are too many stoic  brooding types in the cast. Those who donâ\x80\x99t fit into that category are sadly very one-note. The cast doesnt develop much across the course of the game  despite some fun late-game reveals and twists. No one is completely abrasive and no one really shines  making it all just a bit bland. There is also a bit of a quirk controlling the game on Switch. The DioField Chronicle feels like it was made with mouse and keyboard controls in mind. You have to move a cursor across the screen to select options rather than pushing the joystick rightward to select the next item. It is a small thing but it makes things like shopping and levelling feel like they take longer than they do. Otherwise  the Switch version of the game plays fine  with fast load times and beautiful graphics. For all of The DioField Chronicleâ\x80\x99s flaws  it is an ambitious attempt to try something different with the tactical RPG genre  so we can forgive its shortcomings. If Square Enix wants to develop this game into a series  there is the potential there to do so. More work on the story elements of the game would make it one of the best in an increasingly competitive genre. Despite its shortcomings  The DioField Chronicle is still a solid tactical RPG experience with enough JRPG tropes to interest fans of both genres. The unique gameplay provides plenty of challenge  though it can require a lot of grinding to keep pace with the difficulty curve. The art style is beautiful both in and out of combat but the characters and plot fail to live up to the same standard. In this case  its ambition outstretched its means and it fell just short of where it wanted to be.  Good 7/10 Scoring PolicyReview copy provided by Square Enix Please note that some external links on this page are affiliate links  which means if you click them and make a purchase we may receive a small percentage of the sale. Please read our FTC Disclosure for more information.'